We believe in the AI revolution at
Sequoa and we think that this is going
to be a transformation that is as big if
not bigger than the industrial
revolution. In this short presentation,
we're going to share what this cognitive
revolution is all about and why it
offers a 10 to the 13th $10 trillion
opportunity. We have four sections. The
first is our thesis around artificial
intelligence. The next is the commercial
opportunity. Then we'll get into some
investment trends. These are what we see
going on right now in the state of
artificial intelligence. And finally,
we'll talk about some investment themes.
What we see in the 12 and 18 months
going forward. We believe that
artificial intelligence is akin to the
industrial revolution. In particular, we
want to call out three points in time of
the industrial revolution. The invention
of the steam engine, which kicked it all
off. the first factory system which put
all the requisite parts under the same
roof and finally the first factory
assembly line as we know it today.
What's curious about this slide is the
time in between these points. 67 years
from the first steam engine to the first
factory and that first factory didn't
even use the steam engine. It was
powered by water. Then
144 years between that first factory and
the factory assembly line as we know it
today.
question is why did it take so long? In
particular, what was going on in these
144 years? We believe the reason why it
took so long is the specialization
imperative. Beyond a certain scale, for
a complex system to mature, it must
combine general purpose components and
labor with highly specialized components
and labor. In other words, what was
happening is taking these general
technologies and specializing them to
produce specific outputs.
Now, we live in the cognitive
revolution. You might say that the steam
engine was that first GPU, the GeForce
256 in 1999, the first AI factory
putting all the components necessary to
produce these AI tokens in 2016. So the
question then becomes who is the John
Rockefeller, the Andrew Carnegi, the
Westinghouse and the Wedgewood of this
cognitive revolution. We believe that it
is the startups of today that are
carrying out this specialization
imperative and the startups that have
yet to be formed that will build those
applications.
Now we're not called Sequoia history.
We're called Sequoia Capital. So let's
talk about the dollars and cents.
You may have seen this slide before. We
used it in our AI Ascent conference. On
the left is a $350 billion circle
representing the spend on software at
the beginning of the cloud
transformation. That six sliver is $6
billion of software as a service spend.
Now what happened is not only did
software as a service increase its share
of the on-prem software market, it
actually expanded the entire market
growing to over $650 billion today. We
believe something similar is going to
happen in artificial intelligence and in
an even bigger opportunity. This is the
$10 trillion US services market of which
maybe 20 billion or so today is
automated by AI. That is the 10 to the
13th opportunity to not only grow the
share of this pie, but grow the pie
itself. You may have seen the last
slide, but you've never seen this slide.
This is a piece of an internal memo at
Sequoia at services jobs sorted by the
rightmost column. That column is a
multiplication of number of employees in
the job and the median annual wage
according to the US Census Bureau. What
you'll notice is they are really big
TAMs. You'll also notice that Sequoia
has made investments in these spaces.
Consider Open Evidence and Freed in the
registered nurses space or factory and
reflection in the software developer
space or Harvey Crosby and Finch in the
law space. So at SEOA we like to think
about TAM and in particular market. Our
founder Don Valentine always talked
about market market and its importance.
This chart shows the market cap of the
S&P 500. What you'll notice is a few
really big companies. That's Nvidia on
the far left with over $4 trillion of
market cap and the percentage is the
one-year performance. There's no
Kirkland and Ellis law firm on this
slide. There's no Baker Tilly accounting
firm, even though these are businesses
that do billions of revenue.
We believe that the cognitive revolution
offers an opportunity to expand
the market and expand this slide to
include many large standalone public
companies built around AI in the
services space.
Next, let's talk about five investment
trends that we're noticing right in the
here and now of the artificial
intelligence cognitive revolution.
The first is leverage over uncertainty.
We've noticed that work is moving from
us having minimal leverage on a task and
100% certainty of the outcome to 100
plus% leverage on the task and way less
certainty on the exact manifestation of
the outcome. If you're a seller, if your
job is to be a salesperson, and you're
managing a series of accounts, potential
customers to work with today, you might
manage those accounts all on your own,
monitoring each one for an opportunity.
But in the AI agent future, you could be
using rocks, which allows you to have
hundreds of AI agents, an AI agent for
every single customer, tracking their
progress, seeing what's changing there,
showing you opportunities to re-engage
and expand the partnership with that
customer. Now, this AI agent is not
going to do things exactly like you are.
it might actually miss something or make
a mistake and that's where the person
comes in and corrects it. We see 100
plus% leverage in this case maybe even a
thousand% leverage with some more
uncertainty. It's not exactly the work
that you're doing. Next is we've noticed
that measurement has moved into the real
world. For most of the history of
artificial intelligence, we used
academic benchmarks. When I was an AI
engineer over a decade ago, we used
ImageNet as the benchmark for our
computer vision research. But today, if
you want to prove excellence, you prove
it in the real world. Consider Expo,
which wanted to show that their
artificial intelligence was the best AI
hacker in the world. Rather than just
proving this on academic benchmarks,
they went out into the real world and
they competed on hacker one against
every other hacker in the world that had
registered on that website to find
vulnerabilities.
They were able to show that on real
world data, they were able to compete
and win, be the number one hacker in the
world. We've noticed that this is the
new gold standard, not just academic
benchmarks, but realworld measurement.
The third is reinforcement learning. The
AI industry has been talking about
reinforcement learning for a long time
now. We've seen it come into center
stage in the past year. Not only are the
large reasoning labs benefiting from
reinforcement learning, but we also see
many of our portfolio companies
benefiting from it. Consider reflection,
which uses reinforcement learning to
train some of the best open source
models in the coding space. A fourth
trend we've noticed is AI in the
physical world. It's really coming to
life. And this isn't just humanoid
robotics. It also is creating processes
and creating hardware with artificial
intelligence. Consider nominal which
uses artificial intelligence to
accelerate the hardware manufacturing
process and actually also uses
artificial intelligence to do the
quality assurance after it's deployed in
the field. Finally, we've noticed that
the new production function is compute.
That's flops per knowledge worker. If
you survey our portfolio, they'll say
that they forecast at minimum a 10x
increase in the flops per knowledge
worker. That's at minimum 10 times more
consumption of compute per knowledge
worker because as described, the
knowledge worker might be using one or
dozens or hundreds or thousands of these
agents. On the more optimistic side, we
see a future where there's thousand or
10,000x consumption of flops per
knowledge worker. This is really
powerful for not only inference
companies, but companies that are
protecting that inference and companies
that are using this new production
function to get to more workers. Next,
let's talk about five investment themes.
These are important themes that we're
investing in in the year ahead. The
first theme is persistent memory.
Persistent memory can mean at least two
things. The first is long-term memory.
Remembering the context that has been
shared with an AI for a long period. And
the second is the persistence of the
identity of an artificial intelligence.
The agent remaining its own personality
and style for some period of time. This
is going to be critical to crack in
order to get into more and more work
functions for AI. An artificial
intelligence that goes into the
productivity space needs to have
long-term memory, needs to understand
the entire context of an organization
and of a function. We've noticed that
there's no equivalent of scaling laws in
the persistent memory space. There have
been a lot of attempts be it vector DBs
and rag or longer and longer contact
windows, but this has not been cracked
and it's a major opportunity ahead. The
next is seamless communication
protocols. Now, there's been a lot of
excitement around MCP, rightfully so.
But let's think back to the internet
revolution. TCPIP was not the finish
line. It was the starting gun. And in
the communication revolution, we have an
opportunity to actually take AIs and
help them seamlessly communicate with
each other. We believe that this is
going to yield many major applications.
One to consider is shopping. Right now,
if you wanted to purchase a product with
AI, you might go and do some research
with AI and then execute that order with
your favorite provider of a one-click
checkout. But in the future, we see that
AI is going to be able to do that
because of the seamless communication
protocol. AI is going to be able to go
through the process and find the best
prices, execute that purchase for you
and complete it all while decreasing the
moes of all those businesses that have
made it so much easier to use them than
other providers. The third trend is AI
voice. You might be surprised that I
didn't put AI video, but that's
intentional. I think that in a year AI
video might be here, but AI voice is
right now. And that's because not only
has its fidelity increased, the quality
of voice increased to the point where
it's useful day-to-day, but the latency
has decreased where you could have real
time conversations with AI voice. Now
there's many applications of AI voice
that are exciting. These include AI
friends, AI companion, AI therapist, all
these business to consumer applications.
I'm also personally very excited about
the other applications of AI voice in
the enterprise. If you're planning to
ship something as an enterprise and
you're working on the logistics, many of
those logistics are still done by voice.
Now, you can actually work for a future
that automates many of those logistical
coordinations. If you want to buy or
sell a large block of fixed income,
you're probably doing that over voice
with an over-the-counter trading desk.
All this in the enterprise space can be
accelerated by using AI voice. Next,
there's AI security. We see an
absolutely huge opportunity in AI
security. And that's all the way from
the development layer all the way
through to the consumer. At the
development layer, we see an opportunity
to help the large foundation model labs
and AI labs develop their technology in
a secure manner. Then there's the
distribution, ensuring that is
distributed in a secure manner and that
no bad actors insert themselves in that
process. Then for the user themselves,
ensuring that when they're consuming
this product or vibe coding a new app,
they don't accidentally introduce
vulnerabilities. A tangible example here
would be a consumer who is instructed by
their AI to download a piece of software
with terminal. They might not be very
familiar with terminal and the AI might
not know that this piece of software
could introduce a vulnerability with the
rest of that consumer's environment.
We're going to enter a world where the
AI is actually protecting both the
individual and the AI agents. In fact,
we see a future where unlike the
physical world, in this digital world,
you could have hundreds of AI security
agents for every human and even for
every agent. Unlike in the physical
world, you're not limited by physical
space or even the same costs. You could
have a massive number of AI security
agents per person and per agent.
Finally, we find that open source is at
a pivotal moment in the AI journey. If
you asked us two years ago, we would say
that it seems like open- source has a
shot at competing with and maybe even
winning against the state-of-the-art
foundation models. Today, that position
seems much more precarious. We believe
that it's very important that open
source compete and offer some of the
best state-of-the-art foundation models.
We think it's critical for a more free,
open future where anyone can build. And
we hope to help build that future so
that open- source models are available
to everyone to build excellent products
with and that the AI future is not just
limited to the extremely wellunded
giants. These are five investment themes
that we're thinking about. Now the
question becomes what happens if we're
able to take these investment themes and
translate them into progress. We believe
that that progress will be able to take
the time to that cognitive assembly line
and compress it materially for many
years to just a few. We thank you so
much for listening and hope to get to
build in the cognitive revolution
together.